SNAPSHOT: https://web.archive.org/web/20251102012204/https://openai.com/policies/usage-policies/
TIMESTAMP: 20251102012204
ORIGINAL: https://openai.com/policies/usage-policies
---
Usage policies | OpenAI
2,349 captures
10 Mar 2023 - 09 Jul 2026
Oct
NOV
Dec
02
2024
2025
2026
success
fail
About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization:
Archive Team
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history.
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations.
The main site for Archive Team is at
archiveteam.org
and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs.
This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the
Wayback Machine
, providing a path back to lost websites and work.
Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find.
The Archive Team Panic Downloads
are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.
Collection:
ArchiveBot: The Archive Team Crowdsourced Crawler
ArchiveBot is an IRC bot designed to automate the archival of smaller websites (e.g. up to a few hundred thousand URLs). You give it a URL to start at, and it grabs all content under that URL, records it in a WARC, and then uploads that WARC to ArchiveTeam servers for eventual injection into the Internet Archive (or other archive sites).
To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently.
There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at
http://www.archivebot.com
.
ArchiveBot's source code can be found at
https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot
.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20251102012204/https://openai.com/policies/usage-policies/
Skip to main content
Log in
Switch to
ChatGPT
(opens in a new window)
Sora
(opens in a new window)
API Platform
(opens in a new window)
OpenAI
Select language
…
Effective: October 29, 2025
Usage policies
We aim for our tools to be used safely and responsibly, while maximizing your control over how you use them. In building our Usage Policies, we keep a few important things in mind.
We empower users to innovate with AI
. We build AI products that maximize helpfulness and freedom, while ensuring safety. Usage Policies are just one way we set clear expectations for the use of our products within a broader safety ecosystem that sets responsible guardrails across our services. You can
learn more
about our safety approach and
our commitment to
customizability, transparency, and intellectual freedom to explore, debate, and create with AI.
Responsible use is a shared priority
. We assume the very best of our users. Our
terms and policies
—including these Usage Policies—set a reasonable bar for acceptable use. Our rules are no substitute for legal requirements, professional duties, or ethical obligations that should influence how people use AI. We hold people accountable for inappropriate use of our services, and breaking or circumventing our rules and safeguards may mean you lose access to our systems or experience other penalties.
We build with safety first
. We
monitor and enforce
policies with privacy safeguards in place and clear review processes. We give developers practical
moderation tools
⁠
(opens in a new window)
and guidance so they can support their end users. We
publish
what our systems can and can’t do, share
research
and
updates
, and provide a simple way to
report misuse
.
We update as we learn
. People are using our systems in new ways every day, and we update our rules to ensure they are not overly restrictive or to better protect our users. We reserve all rights to withhold access where we reasonably believe it necessary to protect our service or users or anyone else. You can
appeal
⁠
if you think we have made a mistake enforcing policy, and we will work to make things right. If you’d like to keep up with Usage Policies updates,
complete this form
.
Your use of OpenAI services must follow these Usage Policies:
Protect people
. Everyone has a right to safety and security. So you cannot use our services for:
threats, intimidation, harassment, or defamation
suicide, self-harm, or disordered eating promotion or facilitation
sexual violence or non-consensual intimate content
terrorism or violence, including hate-based violence
weapons development, procurement, or use, including conventional weapons or CBRNE
illicit activities, goods, or services
destruction, compromise, or breach of another’s system or property, including malicious or abusive cyber activity or attempts to infringe on intellectual property rights of others
real money gambling
provision of tailored advice that requires a license, such as legal or medical advice, without appropriate involvement by a licensed professional
unsolicited safety testing
circumventing our safeguards
national security or intelligence purposes without our review and approval
Respect privacy
. People are entitled to privacy. So, we don’t allow attempts to compromise the privacy of others, including to aggregate, monitor, profile, or distribute individuals’ private or sensitive information without their authorization. And, you may never use our services for:
facial recognition databases without data subject consent
real-time remote biometric identification in public spaces
use of someone’s likeness, including their photorealistic image or voice, without their consent in ways that could confuse authenticity
evaluation or classification of individuals based on their social behavior, personal traits, or biometric data (including social scoring, profiling, or inferring sensitive attributes)
inference regarding an individual’s emotions in the workplace and educational settings, except when necessary for medical or safety reasons
assessment or prediction of the risk of an individual committing a criminal offense based solely on their personal traits or on profiling
Keep minors safe
.
Children and teens deserve special protection. Our services are designed to prevent harm and support their well-being, and must never be used to exploit, endanger, or sexualize anyone under 18 years old.
We report
apparent child sexual abuse material and child endangerment to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. We prohibit use of our services for:
child sexual abuse material (CSAM), whether or not any portion is AI generated
grooming of minors
exposing minors to age-inappropriate content, such as graphic self-harm, sexual, or violent content
promoting unhealthy dieting or exercise behavior to minors
shaming or otherwise stigmatizing the body type or appearance of minors
dangerous challenges for minors
underaged sexual or violent roleplay
underaged access to age-restricted goods or activities
Empower people
. People should be able to make decisions about their lives and their communities. So we don’t allow our services to be used to manipulate or deceive people, to interfere with their exercise of human rights, to exploit people’s vulnerabilities, or to interfere with their ability to get an education or access critical services, including any use for:
academic dishonesty
deceit, fraud, scams, spam, or impersonation
political campaigning, lobbying, foreign or domestic election interference, or demobilization activities
automation of high-stakes decisions in sensitive areas without human review
critical infrastructure
education
housing
employment
financial activities and credit
insurance
legal
medical
essential government services
product safety components
national security
migration
law enforcement
Changelog
2025-10-29: We've updated our Usage Policies to reflect a universal set of policies across OpenAI products and services.
2025-01-29: We've updated our Universal Policies to clarify prohibitions under applicable laws.
2024-01-10: We've updated our Usage Policies to be clearer and provide more service-specific guidance.
2023-02-15: We’ve combined our use case and content policies into a single set of usage policies, and have provided more specific guidance on what activity we disallow in industries we’ve considered high risk.
2022-11-09: We no longer require you to register your applications with OpenAI. Instead, we'll be using a combination of automated and manual methods to monitor for policy violations.
2022-10-25: Updated App Review process (devs no longer need to wait for approval after submitting as long as they comply with our policies). Moved to an outcomes-based approach and updated Safety Best Practices.
2022-06-07: Refactored into categories of applications and corresponding requirements.
2022-03-09: Refactored into “App Review”.
2022-01-19: Simplified copywriting and article writing/editing guidelines.
2021-11-15: Addition of “Content guidelines” section; changes to bullets on almost always approved uses and disallowed uses; renaming document from “Use case guidelines” to “Usage guidelines”.
2021-08-04: Updated with information related to code generation.
2021-03-12: Added detailed case-by-case requirements; small copy and ordering edits.
2021-02-26: Clarified the impermissibility of Tweet and Instagram generators.